Time.
Life loops allow you to loop through a collection.
There are many ways that a variable expression can execute on a model attributes.
A variable expression can be used to return a model attribute or a value that derives from it.
It can execute a condition based on a model attributes.
It can also be used in a loop, and it can also execute utility methods on a model attribute.
In this lesson, we will be executing a loop.
Let's go through the process.
The first step is to add a grades model attribute.
The model attribute to grades is going to map to a collection of grade objects.
Step two is to generate a table of row for each object inside the grade's collection.
Starting from the first row.
Add the leaf attribute only if each.
Finally, if each must loop through every element in the grade's collection.
For each element that it runs through, it generates a new row.
Step one is to add the grades attribute to the model.
First we have to create the data.
So inside the controller, I'm going to create an array list of great objects list that can store great
objects.
And I will call the variable student grades.
Is equal to a new ArrayList.
And now inside the Handler method, we're going to add three objects to the array list.
We can just say student grades, dot add.
We will start by adding this great object.
To the array list.
And we'll copy this.
Two more times will add a grade for her mini.
The subject will be arithmetic.
We'll give her an A-plus.
Then we'll say Neville.
Charms.
And we'll give him an A-minus.
And now the attribute that we're going to add to the model will be called grades.
And the grades key is going to map to the array list, student grades.
And that's it.
Now your model contains data.
Step two is to generate a table row for each object inside grids.
Family for each, as you may have predicted, is equal to a string.
The variable expression grabs a collection type from the model and finally each executes a loop by iterating
through every element in the array.
So go to the grades HTML.
Starting from the first data row, we're going to add the leaf attribute to each.
And now write the following syntax grayed colon followed by a variable expression.
The variable expression needs to grab the collection type grades from the model.
And then what's going to happen is finally, if each is going to execute a loop by iterating through
every single grade in the grades collection.
And for each element that it runs through, it's going to generate a new row.
Refresh the page and that's perfect.
As it stands, the first row in your table contains the header.
And every row that follows is generated using a finely loop.
But there is a bug in the code.
Whenever you refresh the page, it actually duplicates the rows.
To explain this.
I'm going to use breakpoints.
If you're using IntelliJ, please set up breakpoints the way that I showed you in the first breakpoint
session.
So what I will do is add three breakpoints here and then I will run the app using the debug mode.
Now I will go to local host 88 slash grades.
Here it's just going to populate the student grades with three grade objects.
That's fine.
Three great objects.
Then I'll just press next.
And then they only create as many rows as there were elements in the array list.
But if we make that same get request the local host 88 grades.
Again the request maps to the handler method get grids.
The array list already has three elements and now we're refilling it with the same data.
Now as a fourth element.
A fifth one and a sixth.
And as you know, thin leaf is going to create as many rows as there are great elements in the grades
array list.
Which is why we ultimately get six rows.
So instead of populating the array list every single time the handler method gets called, we're going
to do it at the class level.
So here we'll say list student grades is equal to.
Arrays.
Make sure you get the autocomplete right.
Arrays dot as list.
And here I can simply add each grade object.
What's happening now is the student grades list is being populated with data only when the grade controller
is first initialized.
So if we run the application.
So to recap in this lesson, you used a timely loop.
First you added a model attribute that maps to a collection of great objects, and then we used a thin
leaf each to loop through every single grade inside of the grades array list.
And for each element that it runs through, it generates a new row with the same field values.
And now you've looked at three out of four ways that a variable expression can execute on a model attribute.